[Docs] Style guide: Terminology and usage conventions (proposed new style guide section) (#31664)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/contributing/documentation/terms-usage.mdx

Reviewer: We should add this to `config.json` and link to it from the `docs/pages/contributing/documentation.mdx` menu page (unless we're adding this as a new H2 in the style guide page?).

Author: I was planning on making it part of one topic.

## Terminology and usage conventions

This section covers common terminology, style, and usage questions.
It includes recommended practices for using punctuation, referring to user interface
elements, and selecting the right words for the information you're trying to convey. 

### Above and below

Don't use *above* to mean *earlier* or as an adjective preceding a noun (*the above section*) 
or following a noun (*the code above*). Use a hyperlink, or use *previous*, *preceding*, or 
*earlier*. Don't use *below* to mean *later* or as an adjective preceding a noun (*the below 
section*) or following a noun (*the code below*). Use a hyperlink, or use *later* or 
*the following*. For example: 

- Use the preceding code to display information about the database.

> - Use the following code to display information about the database.

Reviewer: Would you mind elaborating on the reasoning behind this one?

Author: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/a/above
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/b/below

### Dates and numbers

Date formats can depend on context, including the location of a computer and a user's 
preferences. In most cases, you can use the DD Mon YYYY or DD Month YYYY format for dates. 
In body text, spell out whole numbers from zero through nine. Use numerals for 10 or greater. 
Use commas in numbers with four or more digits. Use *more than* instead of *over* 

> (over is a spatial term). 

Reviewer: > Use *more than* instead of *over* (over is a spatial term). 

This seems artificially limiting to me. I see "over" all the time as an expression of quantity. (e.g., if you google `"with over" site:nytimes.com`).

Author: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/o/over

### Emphasis and special notices

Use bold formatting for user interface elements that the user interacts with, including:

- Menus and menu commands.
- Field and button labels.
- Options that can be selected in the user interface.

> If there's text that requires more attention than the surrounding body, consider isolating 

Reviewer: I would separate this H3 into H4s. I was reading this paragraph as an extension of the discussion of UI element formatting and got confused for a bit.

it as a standalone note or tip. However, **think twice** before adding any type of special 
notice, embedding details, or using tabbed boxes. These elements can all be distracting and 
too many of them make text unreadable. 

Because they are generally **disruptive** to the reader's experience, ask yourself if it is 

> really necessary to stop the reader's forward progress by adding a Note, Caution, Tip, or 
> any other special component. In most cases, it's more effective to integrate the information 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
really necessary to stop the reader's forward progress by adding an `Admonition`, `Notice`, `Tabs`, or 
any other special component. In most cases, it's more effective to integrate the information 
```

To refer to actual Teleport docs engine components

> in the main body of the text. If you use these types of components at all, use them sparingly! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the main body of the text. If you use these types of components at all, use them sparingly.
```

**Note**—Indicates neutral or positive information that emphasizes or supplements important 
points of the main text. A note supplies information that may apply only in special cases. 
Examples are memory limitations, equipment configurations, or details that apply to specific 
versions of a program.

**Tip**—Helps users apply the techniques and procedures described in the text to their specific 
needs. A tip suggests alternative methods that may not be obvious and helps users understand 
the benefits and capabilities of the product. A tip is not essential to the basic understanding 
of the text.

**Caution**—Advises users that failure to take or avoid a specific action could result in 

> loss of data.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this glossary is necessary. These aren't components in Teleport's component library, and we don't use these terms outside of this seciton.

### Images

Diagrams and illustrations can help readers visualize and internalize complex ideas and 

> processes. So, use them liberally but with intention. Images also help to break up long text 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processes, so use them liberally but with intention. Images also help to break up long text 
```

flows, but they should always reinforce and reflect the text immediately preceding or 
immediately following the image.

If you include screenshots, only include the relevant parts of the screen and use callouts 
to highlight how what is captured in the image is relevant to the text.

Be wary of using diagrams or illustrations that include any information—visual or textual—that 
is likely to get stale.

> ### Log in and sign in formats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### "Log in" and "sign in"
```
To make it clear that we're talking about phrases

Most Linux distributions and macOS use *log in* to describe how a user initiates an interactive 
session. Windows uses *log on*. Many modern web-based applications—including the Teleport Web 
UI—use *sign in*.

> - Use sign in or log in as two words with no hyphen when describing an action (verb usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use "sign in" or "log in" as two words with no hyphen when describing an action (verb usage).
```
Or italicize these terms. Otherwise, this is harder to read.

> - Use sign in and sign out as the preferred terminology when referring to actions involving 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use "sign in" and "sign out" as the preferred terminology when referring to actions involving 
```

  the Teleport Web UI.

> - Use login as one word only when used as a noun, for example, when using login to mean user 
>   profile or an identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use "login" as one word only when it is used as a noun, for example, when using "login" to mean "user 
  profile" or an identity.
```

> - Use log-in with a hyphen when modifying a noun (adjective usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use "log-in" with a hyphen when modifying a noun (adjective usage).
```

### Optional steps

> Use (Optional) at the beginning of steps that are optional. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use "(Optional)" at the beginning of steps that are optional. For example:
```

- (Optional) Add a custom field.

### Punctuation

Use the guidelines in this section for punctuation marks.

| Punctuation	| Usage
| ----------- | -----
| apostrophe (') | Use in contractions for a conversational tone. Avoid using the possessive form.

> | capitalization | Use sentence style capitalization for all headings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| capitalization | Use sentence-style capitalization for all headings. 
```

> | capitalization | Use sentence style capitalization for all headings. 

Reviewer: Should "capitalization" be here? It doesn't have to do with punctuation.

| colon (:) | Use a colon at the end of the statement that introduces a procedure, bulleted list, or table.
| comma (,)	| Use a serial comma to separate three or more items in a series, including the item before the conjunction. For example: She bought apples, oranges, and bananas.
| em dash (—)	| Use an em dash (—) to set off a clarifying or parenthetical phrase with more emphasis than parentheses provide. Don't add spaces around an em dash. Don't capitalize the first word after an em dash unless the word is a proper noun.
| exclamation point (!) | Avoid using exclamation points in general and never use more than one.

> | hyphenation (-)	| Avoid using hyphenated compound words. Use hyphens only if the meaning is unclear without them or if the only recognized form of the word includes a hyphen.

Reviewer: What would an example of this be?

> | quotation marks (“ “)	| Avoid using quotation marks unless you need to quote a message or as string that would otherwise be confusing given its surrounding context.

Reviewer: What's the reasoning behind this?

| semicolons (;) | Don't use semicolons instead of commas to separate items in a list. If you think the content should use semicolons, consider rewriting it into subtopics or an unordered bullet list.

> | slashes (/) and backslashes (\)	| Avoid using slashes or backslashes except when documenting paths that require either forward or backward slashes. Never use and/or in documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| slashes (/) and backslashes (\)	| Avoid using slashes or backslashes except when documenting paths that require either forward or backward slashes. Never use "and/or" in documentation.
```

### Software versions

Use *or later* or *and later* to refer to multiple versions of software. For example:

- Firefox 3.6 or later
- Rust compiler, version 1.55.0 and later

### Tense

Use present tense whenever possible. Use past tense only if you must describe something 
that has already occurred.
Use future tense only if you must describe something that has not yet occurred but can 
be safely assumed.

### User interface elements

In general, you should avoid writing about user interface elements themselves. Instead, 
documentation should always focus on what the audience needs to do or wants to 
accomplish—that is, the user interaction—and not the widgets displayed on the screen.

When referring to interactions in the user interface, you should generally follow the 
capitalization that is used for the element unless it is rendered as all capital letters. 
Because using all capitals is typically considered aggressive in text and most
user interface elements that use all capital letters are also text that the user interacts

> with, you can break the "follow the UI rule" and use an initial capital letter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with, you can break the "follow the UI" rule and use an initial capital letter.
```

| Element	| How to use it
| ------- | -------------
| button	| Use bold for the button label. Don't include "button" in the description. For example: Click **Submit**.
| checkbox	| Use checkbox, not box or check box, if you need to refer to a checkbox in the user interface. Use select and clear with checkboxes, not turn on and turn off, check and uncheck, or unselect and deselect.
| click	| Use click to describe taking action on a standalone button. Do not use click on. Click and select are not interchangeable.
| dialog	| If you need to refer to a dialog box, use dialog. Don't use pop-up window, dialog box, or dialogue box.
| dropdown	| Use dropdown as an adjective, not as a noun. For example, use dropdown list.

> | menu | Use bold for the menu name and menu item names if the user interacts with them.

Reviewer: As noted above, I think the mentioning of words or text examples without quotes or italics makes this harder to read, and reminds me of something out of recent literary fiction (e.g., Cormac McCarthy) rather than prose intended for clarity. Is this a technical writing best practice? If you have any other guidance on this practice from external sources that you can share, though, I'm willing to change my mind. 

This comment also applies to the two tables below.

| allow, enable	| Avoid using software as a point of view and consider rewriting to focus on the human interacting with the software.
| app, application	| Use application or applications unless there's a specific reason for using the shorthand term app or apps.
| back-end, front-end	| Using the hyphen in these terms is still more common than not using it. Both forms are acceptable, but for consistency use the hyphen.
| email	| It hasn't been e-mail for thirty-plus years. Never use emails. Don't use email as a verb.
| file name	| Use file name as two words, not filename.
| its, it's	| Use its as a possessive meaning belonging to or associated with an object or idea previously mentioned. Because it is a vague pronoun, be sure to check that what it refers to can be easily identified. Use it's only as a contraction for it is or it has.
| multifactor	| Use multifactor without the hyphen for multifactor authentication.
| please	| Avoid using please in documentation unless there's a specific reason for using it. For example, you might use please if quoting the content of a message that asks the user to do something inconvenient.

> | prerequisite | As a section title, it's a bit stuffy and old-fashioned. Use Before you begin instead. If you use prerequisite in the text, there's no hyphen.

Reviewer: Do we have a plan to change our how-to guides? They basically all have a "Prerequisites" section.
